This repository is home to a visual argument project by Grace Longworth, a Composing Digital Media student at the University of Pittsburgh. 

The purpose of this argument, entitled "Patterns," is to connect Elon Musk’s recent political ascent and subsequent decline into fascist tendencies with the recent trend of devaluing history, social sciences, and humanities education in American schools. From even my earliest experiences in public schools, I can recall the emphasis my teachers and school administrators placed on STEM and scientific fields in developing societal and personal success. As I’ve gotten older, I’ve come to recognize the practical implications of such an emphasis. These include the push to ban books that portray diverse stories and perspectives, declining literacy rates, and lessening enrollment in humanities programs at U.S. universities, which have all contributed to the effectiveness of anti-immigrant rhetoric and propaganda. In my eyes, and [in the eyes](https://www.minnpost.com/community-voices/2020/10/1930s-germany-and-2020-usa-should-we-fear-the-parallels/) [of experts](https://washdiplomat.com/american-democracy-under-threat-some-parallels-with-1920s-germany/), these trends are disturbingly reminiscent of German politics in the 1930s, just before the red flags became too glaring to ignore. 

Elon Musk is representative of the dangers of ignoring historical patterns, exactly what the philosopher George Santayana warns against. His actions, and his refusal to acknowledge wrongdoing, encapsulate experts’ concerns over the current state of American democracy. If citizens are unwilling and unable to recognize the signs of a descent into fascism, hope of preventing such a transition is fleeting. This visual intends to call attention to that fact, and to the patterns that so many refuse to acknowledge in the first place. 

A full list of credits for images used in this project can be found within this repository under [credits.md](https://github.com/longworthgrace23/visual-argument-2025spring/blob/main/credits.md). 
